= gdata_plus

{Source code}[https://github.com/balexand/gdata_plus] | {RDoc}[http://rubydoc.info/gems/gdata_plus/frames] | {Ruby Gem}[https://rubygems.org/gems/gdata_plus]

Simple, easy to use GData API that supports OAuth, Ruby 1.8/1.9 and uses Typhoeus as an HTTP client.

== Installation

  gem install gdata_plus

== Making requests

Start by getting the client from the authenticator (see Authentication below).

  client = authenticator.client

Then make a request.

  response = client.get("https://picasaweb.google.com/data/feed/api/user/default")

Then parse the response using your preferred XML library. I'll use {Nokogiri}[http://nokogiri.org/tutorials/searching_a_xml_html_document.html] for this example.

  feed = Nokogiri::XML(response.body)
  album_titles = feed.xpath("//xmlns:entry/xmlns:title/text()").collect {|i| "#{i}"}

If you need more control over the request, then you can create your own {Typhoeus}[https://github.com/pauldix/typhoeus] request and submit it to the client.

  request = Typhoeus::Request.new(...)
  client.submit request

== Authentication

{OAuth}[http://code.google.com/apis/gdata/docs/auth/oauth.html] and {ClientLogin}[http://code.google.com/apis/gdata/docs/auth/clientlogin.html] are supported. OAuth is preferred for web apps and ClientLogin is convenient for installed apps and command-line utilities.

=== OAuth

Before using OAuth, you will need to {register your domain}[http://code.google.com/apis/accounts/docs/RegistrationForWebAppsAuto.html] and get a consumer key and consumer secret from Google. See {the OAuth example}[https://github.com/balexand/gdata_plus/blob/master/examples/oauth_example.rb] for getting started with OAuth.

==== Using an existing access token

If you already have an access token and access token secret, then you can construct an OAuth authenticator as follows:

  GDataPlus::Authenticator::OAuth.new(
    :consumer_key => CONSUMER_KEY,
    :consumer_secret => CONSUMER_SECRET,
    :access_token => access_token,
    :access_secret => access_secret
  )

=== ClientLogin

See the {ClientLogin example}[https://github.com/balexand/gdata_plus/blob/master/examples/client_login_example.rb].

=== Serializing authenticators

Both the OAuth and ClientLogin authenticators can be serialized using a method like to_yaml.

== Error handling

TODO

== Ruby support

This project is tested against Ruby 1.8.7 and Ruby 1.9.2. There is an {issue}[https://github.com/balexand/gdata_plus/issues/1] with international characters and OAuth that affects Ruby 1.8.7.

== Contributions

This project is actively maintained. Please submit an issue if you find any bugs or want to request a new feature. Contributions are welcome. Please run the tests with Ruby 1.9.2 and 1.8.7 before submitting a pull request:

  rake test

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Brian Alexander. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

